J 
Europaisches  Patentamt 
European  Patent  Office  ®  Publication  number:  0  086  439 
A1 Office  europeen  des  brevets  ^  1 
EUROPEAN  PATENT  APPLICATION 
@  Application  number:  83101168.9  ©  Int.  CI.3:  F  02  M  25/12 
@  Date  of  filing  .08.02.83 
@)  Priority:  17.02.82  US  3491  85  @  Applicant:  Meyer,  Stanley  A.,  3792  Broadway,  Grove  City Ohio  43123  (US) 
@  Date  of  publication  of  application:  24.08.83  @  Inventor:  Meyer,  Stanley  A.,  3792  Broadway,  Grove  City Bulletin  83/34  Ohio  431  23  (US) 
@  Representative  :  Wasmeier,  Alt  ons,  Dipl.-lng.  et  al, @  Designated  Contracting  States  :  AT  BE  CH  DE  FR  GB  IT  Postf  ach  382  Greflingerstrasse  7,  D-8400  Regensburg LILUNL.SE  (DE) 
@  Hydrogen  gas  injector  system  for  internal  combustion  engine. 
System  and  apparatus  for  the  controlled  intermixing  of  a 
volatile  hydrogen  gas  with  oxygen  and  other  non-combustible 
gasses  in  a  combustion  system.  In  a  preferred  arrangement 
the  source  of  volatile  gas  is  a  hydrogen  source,  and  the  non- 
combustible  gasses  are  the  exhaust  gasses  of  the  combustion 
system  in  a  closed  loop  arrangement.  Specific  structure  for  the 
controlled  mixing  of  the  gasses,  the  fuel  flow  control,  and  safe- 
ty  are  disclosed. 

There  is  disclosed  in  my  co-pending  U.S.  Patent  Application, 
Serial  Number  802.807  filed  September  16,  1981  for  a  Hydrogen- 
Generator,  a  generating  system  converting  water  into  hydrogen 
and  oxygen  gasses.  In  that  system  and  method  the  hydrogen  atoms 
are  disocciated  from  a  water  molecule  by  the  application  of  a 
non-regulated, non-filtered,  low-power,  direct currect  voltage 
electrical  potential  applied  to  two  non-oxidizing  similar 
metal  plates  having  water  passing  there-between.  The  sub-atomic 
action  is  enhanced  by  pulsing  the  non-regulated  and  non-filtered 
direct  current  voltage.  The  apparatus  comprises  structional 
configurations  in  alternative  embodiments  for  segregating  the 
generated  hydrogen  gas  from  the  oxygen  gas. 
In  my  co-pending  Patent  Application  filed  May  5,  1981, 
U.S.  Serial  Number  262.744  (now  abandoned)  for  Hydrogen-Air- 
dation  Processor,  non-volatile  and  non-combustible  gasses  are 
controlled  in  a  mixing  stage  with  a  volatile  gas.  The  hydrogen 
airdation  processor  system  utilizes  a  rotational  mechanical 
gas  displacement  system  to  transfer,  meter,  mix  and  pressurize 
the  various  gasses.  In  the  gas  transformation  process,  ambient 
air  is  passed  through  an  open  flame  gas-burner  system  to 
eliminate  gasses  and  other  present  substances.  Thereafter  the 
non-combustible  gas-mixture  is  cooled,  filtered  for  impurity 
removal,  and  mechanically  mixed  with  a  predetermined  amount  of 
hydrogen  gas.  There  results  a  new  synthetic  gas.  The  synthetic 
gas  formation  stage  also  volume  meters  and  determines  the 
proper  gas-mixing  ratio  for  establishing  the  desired  burn-rate 
of  hydrogen  gas.  The  rotational  mechanical  gas  displacement 
system  in  that  process  determines  the  volume-amount  of  synthetic 
gas  to be  produced. 
The  above-noted  hydrogen  airdation  processor,  of  my  co-pending 
application,  is  a  multi-stage  system  having  utility  in  special 
applications.  Whereas  the  hydrogen  generator  system  of  my 
other  mentioned  co-pending  application  does  disclose  a  very 
simple  and  unique  hydrogen  generator. 

In  my  co-pending  Patent  Application  Serial  Number  315.945 
filed  Octoberl8,  1981  there  is  disclosed  a  combustion  system 
having  utility  in  a  mechanical  drive  system.  Particularly  in 
one  instance  to  drive  a  piston  in  an  automotive  device.  There 
is  shown  a  hydrogen  generator  for  developing  hydrogen  gas, 
and  perhaps  other  non-volatile  gasses  such  as  oxygen  and 
nitrogen.  The  hydrogen  gas  with  the attendant non-volatile 
gasses  are  fed  via  a  line  to  a  controlled  air  intake  system. 
The  combined  hydrogen,  non-volatile  gasses,  and  the  air  after 
inter-mixing  are  fed  to  a  combustion  chamber  where  it  is 
ignited.  The  exhaust  gasses  of  the  combustion  chamber  are  re- 
turned  in  a  closed  loop  arrangement  to  the  mixing  chamberfor 
the  mixture  of  volatile  and  non-combustible gasses.  Particular 
applications  and  structural  embodiments  of  the  system  are  dis- 
closed. 
SUMMARY OF  INVENTION 
The  system  of  the  present  invention  in  its  most  preferred 
embodiment  is  for  a  combustion  system  utilizing  hydrogen  gas; 
particularly  to  drive  a  piston  in  an  automobile  device.  The 
system  utilizes  a  hydrogen  generator  for  developing  hydrogen 
gas.  The  hydrogen  gas  and  other  non-volatile  gasses  are  fed 
to  a  mixing  chamber  also  having  oxygen  fed  thereto.  The  mix- 
ture  is  controlled  to  regulate  the  burning  temperature;  that 
is,  to  lower  the  temperature  velocity  of  the  hydrogen  gas  to 
that  of  the  commercial  fuels.  The  hydrogen  gas  feed  line  to 
the  combustion  chamber  includes  a  fine  linear  control  gas  flow 
valve. An  air  intake  is  the  source  of  oxygen  andit  also  in- 
cludes  a  variable  valve.  The  exhaust  gasses  from  the  combustion 
chamber  are  utilized  in  a  controlled  manner  as  the  non-combust- 
ible  gasses. 
The  hydrogen  generator  is  improved  upon  to  include  a  holding 
tank  to  provide  a  source  of  start-up  fuel.  Also,  the  hydrogen 

gas  generator  includes  a  switch  to  the  power  source  operable 
from  one  position  to  another  dependent  upon  a  pressure  sensing 
switch  on  theéombustion  chamber. 
The  simplified  structure  includes  a  series  of  one-way  valves, 
safety  valves,  and  quenching  apparatus.  The  combination  of 
apparatus  comprises  the  complete  assembly  for  converting  the 
standard  automobile  engine  from  gasoline  (or  other  fuels)  to 
the  hydrogen  gas  mixture. 
OBJECTS 
It  is  accordingly  a  principal  object  of  the  present  invention 
to  provide  a  combustion  system  of  gasses  combined  from  a  source 
of  hydrogen  and  non-combustible  gasses. 
Another  object  of  the  invention  is  to  provide  such  a  combustion 
system  that  intermixes  the  hydrogen  and  non-combustible  gasses 
in  a  controlled  manner  and  thereby  control  the  combustion 
temperature. 
A  further  object  of  the  invention  is  to  provide  such  a  com- 
bustion  system  that  controls  the  fuel  flow  to  the  combustion 
chamber  in  a  system  and  apparatus  particularly  adapted  to 
hydrogen  gas. 
Still  other  objects  and  features  of  the  present  invention 
will  become  apparent  from  the  following  detailed  description 
when  taken  in  conjunction  with  the  drawings  in  which: 
Fig.  1  is  a  mechanical  schematic  illustration  partly  in  block 
form  of  the  present  invention  in  its  most  preferred 
embodiment; 
Fig.  2  is  a  block  schematic  illustration  of  the  preferred  em- 
bodiment  of  the  hydrogen  injector  system  of  Fig.  1; 

Fig.  3  is  the  fine  linear  fuel  flow  control  shown  in  Fig.  1; 
Fig.  4  is  crossectional  illustration  of  the  complete  fuel  in- 
jector  system  in  an  automobile  utilizing  the  concepts  of 
the  present  invention; 
Fig.  5  is  a  schematic  drawing  in  a  top  view  of  the  fuel  injec- 
tor  system  utilized  in  the  preferred  embodiment; 
Fig.  6  is  a  crossectional  side  view  of  the  fuel  injector  system 
in  the  present  invention; 
Fig.  7  is  a  side  view  of  the  fuel  mixing  chamber; 
Fig.  8  is  a  top  view  of  the  air  intake  valve  to  fuel  mixing 
chamber; 
Fig.  9  is  a  comparison  of  the  burning  velocity  of  hydrogen 
with  respect  to  other  fuels. 
DETAILED  DESCRIPTION  OF  INVENTION  TAKEN  WITH  DRAWINGS 
Referring  to  Fig.  1  the  complete  overall  gas  mixing  and  fuel 
flow  system  is  illustrated  together  for  utilization  in  a 
combustion  engine  particularly  an  engine  utilized  in  an 
automobile. 
With  specific  reference  to  Fig.  1,  the  hydrogen  source  10  is 
the  hydrogen  generator  disclosed  and  described  in  my  co-pending 
application,  supra.  The  container  10  is  an  enclosure  for  a 
water  bath  2.  Immersed  in  the  water  2  is  an  array  of  plates  3 
as  further  described  in  my  co-pending  application,  supra. 
Applied  to  plates  3  is  a  source  of  direct  current  potential 
via  electrical  inlet  27.  The  upper  portion 7  of  the  container 
10  is  a  hydrogen  storage  area  maintaining  a  predetermined 
amount  of  pressure.  In  this  way  for  start  up  there  will  be  an 
immediate  flow  of  hydrogen  gas.  To  replenish  the  expended 
water  the  generator  provides  a  continuous  water  source  I. 
Thereafter,  the  generator  is  operable  as  described  in  the 
aforesaid  patent  application. 

The  safety  valve  28  is  rupturable  upon  excessive  gas  buildup. 
Whereas  the  switch  26  is  a  gas  pressure  switch  to  maintain  a 
predetermined  gas  pressure  level  about  a  regulated  low-volume. 
The  generated  hydrogen  gas  4  is  fed  from  the  one-way  check 
valve  16  via  pipe  5  to  a  gas  mixing  chamber  20,  wherein  the 
hydrogen  gas  is  intermixed  with  non-combustible  gasses  via 
pipe  line  9  from  a  source  hereinafter  described. 
In  the  event  one  way  valve  75  should  fail  and  there  be  a  re- 
turn  spark  that  might  ignite  the  hydrogen  gas  4  in  the  storage 
area 7  of  hydrogen  generator  10,  quenching  assembly  76  will 
quench  the  spark  and  prevent  such  ignition. 
With  particular  reference  to  Fig.  2  the  hydrogen  gas  via  pipe 
line  5  and  non-combustible  gasses  via  pipe  line  9  are  fed  to 
a  carburator  (air-mixture)  system  20  also  having  an  ambient 
air  intake  14. 
The  hydrogen  gas  4  is  fed  via  line  5  through  nozzle  11  in  a 
spray  16  in  to  the  trap  area  46  of  the  mixing  chamber  20. 
Nozzle  11  has  an  opening  smaller  than  the  plate  openings  in ' 
the  quenching  assembly  37,  thereby  preventing  flash  back  in 
the  event  of  sparking.  The  non-volatile  gasses  are  injected 
into  mixing  chamber  20  trap  area  47  in  a  jet  spray  17  via 
nozzle  13.  Quenching  assembly  39  is  operable  much  in  the  same 
manner  as  quenching  assembly  37. 
The  ambient  air  is,  in  the  preferred  arrangement,  the  source 
of  oxygen  necessary  for  the  8mbustion  of  the  hydrogen  gas. 
Further,  as  disclosed  in  the  aforesaid  copending  application 
the  non-volatile  gasses  are  in  fact  the  exhaust  gasses  in  a 
closed  loop  system.  It  is  to  be  understood  that  the  oxygen  and/or 
the  non-combustible  gasses  can  be  from  an  independent  source. 

With  continued  reference  to  Fig.  2  the  gas  trap  area  47  is  a 
predetermined  size.  In  that  hydrogen  is  lighter  than  air,  the 
hydrogen  will  rise  and  become  entrapped  in  the  area  47.  The 
size  of  area  47  is  sufficient  to  contain  enough  hydrogen  gas 
for  instant  ignition  upon  start  up  'of  the  combustion  engine. 
It  will  be  noted  that  the  hydrogen  gas  is  inj=ected  in  the 
uppermost  region  of  the  trap  area  47.  Hydrogen  rises  at  a  much 
greater  velocity  than  oxygen  or  non-combustible  gasses;  perhaps 
three  times  or  greater.  Therefore,  if  the  hydrogen  gas  entered 
the  trap  area  47  (mixing  area)  at  its  lowermost  region  the 
hydrogen  gas  would  rise  so  rapidly  that  the  air  could  not  mix 
with  the  oxygen.  With  the  structure  shown  in  Fig.  2  of  the 
trap  area  47,  the  hydrogen  gas  is  forced  downwardly  into  the 
air  intake  15.  That  is,  the  hydrogen  gas  is  forced  downwardly 
into  the  upwardly  forced  air  and  readily  mixed  therewith. 
The  ratio  of  the  ambient  air  (oxygen)  14  and  the  non-combustible 
gas  via  line  9  is  a  controlled  ratio  and  determined  by  the 
particular  engine.  Once  the  proper  combustion  rate  is  deter- 
mined  by  the  adjustment  of  valve  95  for  varying  the  amount 
of  the  non-combustible  gas  and  the  adjustmen-t  of  valve  45  for 
varying  the  amount  of  the  ambient  air,  the  ratio  is  maintained. 
In  a  system  wherein  the  non-combustible  gasses  are  the  exhaust 
gasses  of  the  engine  in  a  closed  loop-arrangement,  and  wherein 
the  air  intake  is  under  the  control  of  the  engine,  the  flow 
velocity  and  hence  the  air/non-combustible  mixture,  is  main- 
tained  by  the  acceleration  of  the  engine. 
The  fixture  of  air  with  non-combustible  gasses  becomes  the 
carrier  for  the  hydrogen  gas.  That  is,  the  hydrogen  gas  is 
superimposed  onthe  air/non-combustible  mixture.  By  varying 
the  amount  of  hydrogen  gas  superimposed  on  the  air/non-com- 
bustible  mixture,  the  r.p.m.  of  the  engine  is  controlled. 

Reference  is  made  to  Fig.  3  illustrating  precisely  in  a  side 
view  cross  section  the  fine  linear  fuel  flow  control  53.  The 
hydrogen  gas  4  enters  chamber  43  via  gas  inlet  41.  The  hydro- 
gen  gas  passes  from  chamber  43  to  chamber  47  via  port  or 
opening  42.  The  amount  of  gas  passing  from  chamber  43  to  chamber 
47  is  controlled  by  controlling  the  port  opening  42. 
The  port  opening  is  controlled  by  the  insertion  there  through 
the  linearly  tapered  pin  73.  The  blunt  end  of  pin  73  is  fixed 
to  rod  71.  Rod  71  passed  by  supporting  0-ring  75,  through 
opening  81  in  housing  30,  to  manual  adjustment  mechanism  83. 
The  spring  49  retains  the  rod  71  in  a  fixed  position  relative 
to  the  pin  73  and  opening  42.  Upon  actuating  the  mechanism  83, 
the  pin  73  will  recede  from  the  opening  42  thereby  increasing 
the  amount  of  gas  passing  from  chamber  43  to  chamber  47. 
The  stops  67  and  69  maintain  spring  49  in  its  stable  position. 
The  position  of  the  pin  73  in  a  fixed  position  relative  to 
opening  42'  is  adjusted  via  threaded  nuts  63  and  67'  on  threaded 
rod  61.  That  is,  the  threaded  adjustment  controls  the  idle  speed 
or  permits  the  minimum  amount  of  gas  to  pass  from  chamber  43  to 
chamber  47  for  continuous  operation  of  the  combustion  engine. 
Referring  now  to  Fig.  8  there  is  illustrated  the  air  adjustment 
control  for  manipulating  the  amount  of  air  passing  into  the 
mixing  chamber  20.  The  closure  21  mounted  on  plate  18  has  an 
opening  17  on  end  11  thereof.  Slideably  mounted  over  said 
opening  17  is  a  plate  control  42.  The  position  of  the  plate 
relative  to  the  opening  17  is  controlled  by  the  position  of 
the  control  rod  19  passing  through  a  grommet  12  to  control  line. 
In  event  of  malfunction  that  may  cause  combustion  of  gasses  in 
mixing  chamber  20,  release  valve  24  will  rupture. 
With  reference  now  to  Fig.  4,  in  the  event  hydrogen  gas  4  should 
accumulate  in  the  mixing  chamber  20  to  excessive  pressure,  an 
escape  tube  36  connected  to  a  port  34  on  the  automobile  hood  32 

permits  the  excess  hydrogen  gas  to  safely  escape  to  the  atmosphere. 
In  the  event  of  a  malfunction  that  may  cause  combustion  in  the 
mixing  chamber  20,  the  pressure  relief  valve  33  will  rupture  ex- 
pelling  hydrogen  gas  without  combustion. 
In  the  constructed  arrangement  of  Fig.  1,  there  is  illustrated 
a  gas  control  system  that  may  be  retrofitted  to  an  existing 
automobile  internal  combustion  engine  without  changing  or  modi- 
fying  automobile's  design  parameters  or  characteristics. 
The  flow  of  the  hydrogen  volatile  gas  is,  of  course,  critical; 
therefore,  there  is  incorporated  in  line  5  a  gas  flow  valve  53 
(Fig.  1)  to  adjust  the  hydrogen  flow.  Gas  flow  valve  is  described 
in  detail  with  reference  to  Fig.  3. 
The  intake  air  14  may  be  in  a  carburator  arrangement  with  an 
intake  adjustment  55  that  adjusts  the  plate  42  opening  and  also 
more  fully  described  with  reference  to  Fig.  8. 
To  maintain  constant  pressure  in  hydrogen  gas  storage 7  in 
the  on-off  operation  of  the  engine,  the  gas  flow  control  valve 
is  responsive  to  the  electrical  shut-off  control  33.  The  con- 
stant  pressure  permits  an  abundant  supply  of  gas  on  start  up 
and  during  certain  periods  of  running  time  in  re-supply. 
The  switch  33  is  in  turn  responsive  to  the  vacuum  control 
switch  60.  During  running  of  the  engine  vacuum  will  be  built 
up  which  in  turn  leaves  switch  33  open  by  contact  with  vacuum 
switch  60  through  lead  60a.  When  the  engine  is  not  running  the 
vacuum  will  decrease  to  zero  and  through  switch  60  will  cause 
electrical  switch  33  to  shut  off  cutting  off  the  flow  of  hydro- 
gen  gas  to  the  control  valve  53. 
As  low-voltage  direct  current  is  applied  to  safety  valve  28, 
solenoid  29  is  activated.  The  solenoid  applies  a  control  voltage 
to  the  hydrogen  generator  exciter  3  via  terminal  27  through 
pressure  switch  26.  As  the  electrical  power  activates  electric 

solenoid  29,  hydrogen  gas  is  caused  to  pass  through  flow  adjust- 
ment  valve  16  and  then  outlet  pipe  5  for  utilization.  The  pres- 
sure  differential  hydrogen  gas  output  to  gas  mixing  chamber  20 
is  for  example  13,5  kg  to  6,75  kg.  Once  hydrogen  generator  10 
reaches  an  optimum  gas  pressure  level,  pressure  switch  26  shuts 
off  electrical  power  to  the  hydrogen  excitors.  If  the  chamber 
pressure  exceeds  a  predetermined  level,  the  safety  release 
valve  28  is  activated  disconnecting  the  electrical  current 
and  thereby  shutting  down  the  entire  system  for  safety  inspection. 
With  particular  reference  now  to  Fig.  6  there  is  illustrated 
the  fuel  injector  system  in  a  side  cross  sectional  view  and  to 
Fig.5  in  a  top  view.  The  structional  apparatus  incorporated  in 
the  preferred  embodiment  comprises  housing  90  having  air  intakes 
14a  and  14e.  The  air  passes  through  filter  91  around  the  compo- 
nents  14b  and  14c  and  then  to  intake  14d  of  the  mixing  chamber 
20.  The  hydrogen  enters  via  line  5  via  quenching  plates  37  and 
into  the  mixing  chamber  20.  The  non-volatile  gasses  pass  via 
line  9  to  the  quenching  plates  39  and  into  the  mixing  chamber  20. 
Fig. 7  illustrates  the  mechanical  arrangement  of  components 
comprising  the  overall  structure  of  the  mixing  chamber  20  and 
shown  independently  in  the  other  figures. 
Returning  to  Fig.  1  there  is  illustrated  the  non-volatile  gas 
line  9  passing  through  mixture  pump  91'  by  engine  pulley  93. 
Valve  95  controls  the  rate  of  flow. 
Also  driven  by  pulley  93  is  pump  96  having  line  85  connected  to 
an  oil  reservoir  92  and  valve  87  and  finally  to  mixing  chamber 
20.  As  a  practical  matter,  such  as  in  a  non-oil  lubri@ted  engine, 
lubricating  fluid  such  as  oil  81  is  sprayed  in  the  chamber  20, 
via  oil  supply  line  85  for  lubrication. 
There  have  been  several  publications  in  the  past  year  or  so 
delving  on  the  properties  of  hydrogen  gas,  its  potential  use, 
generating  systems,  and  safety.  One  such  publication  is 

"Selected  Properties  of  Hydrogen"  (Engineering  Design  Data) 
issued  February  1981  by  the  National  Bureau  of  Standards. 
These  publications  are  primarily  concerned  with  the  elaborate 
and  costly  processes  for  generating  hydrogen.  Equally  so,  they 
are  concerned  with  the  very  limited  use  of  hydrogen  gas  because 
of  its  extremely  high  burning  velocities.  This  in  turn  reflects 
the  danger  in  the  practical  use  of  hydrogen. 
With  reference  to  the  graph  of  the  Appendix  A,  it  is  seen  that 
the  burning  velocities  of  alcohol,  propane,  methane,  gasoline, 
natural  gas,  and  diesel  oil  are  in  the  range  of  minimum  35  to 
maximum  45.  Further,  the  graph  illustrates  that  the  burning  velo- 
city  of  hydrogen  gas  is  in  the  range  of  265  minimum  to  325  maxi- 
mum.  In  simple  terms  in  the  order  of  7,5  times  the  velocity  of 
ordinary  commercial  fuels. 
Because  of  the  hydrogen  gas  unusually  high  burning  velocity, 
hydrogen  gas  has  been  ruled  out,  by  these  prior  investigators  as 
a  substitute  fuel  Further,  even  if  an  engine  could  be  designed 
to  accomodate  such  high  velocities,  the  danger  of  explosion  would 
eliminate  any  thoughts  of  commercial  use. 
The  present  invention,  as  above  described,  has  resolved  the 
above-noted  criterea  for  the  use  of  hydrogen  gas  in  a  standard 
commercial  engine.  Primarily,  the  cost  in  the  generation  of 
hydrogen  gas,  as  noted  in  the  aforementioned  copending  patent 
applications,  is  most  minimal.  Water  with  no  chemicals  or  metals 
is  used.  Also,  as  note  in  the  aforementioned  copending  patent 
applications,  is  the  reuction  in  the  hydrogen  gas  velocity. 
These  copending  applications  not  only  teach  the  reduction  in 
velocity,  but  teach  the  control  of  the  velocity  of  the  hydrogen 
gas. 
In  the  preferred  embodiment,  practical  apparatus  adapting  the 
hydrogen  generator  to  a  combustion  engine  is  described.  The 
apparatus  linearly  controls  the  hydrogen  gas  flow  to  a  mixing 

chamber  mixing  with  a  controlled  amount  of  non-combustible  gas 
oxygen,  hence,  the  reduction  in  the  hydrogen  gas  velocity.  The 
reduction  inthe  hydrogen  gas  velocity  makes  the  use  of  hydrogen 
as  safe  as  other  fuels. 
In  more  practical  terms  the  ordinary  internal  combustion  engine 
of  any  size  or  type  of fuel,  is  retrofitted  to  be  operable  with 
only  water  as  a  fuel  source.  Hydrogen  gas  is  gene-rated  from 
the  waterMithout  the  use  of  chemicals  or  metals  and  at  a  very 
low  voltage.  The  burning  velocity  of  the  hydrogen  gas  has  been 
reduced  to  that  of  conventional  fuels.  Finally,  every  component 
or  step  in  the  process  has  one  or  more  safety  valves  or  features 
thereby  making  the  hydrogen  gas  system safer  than  that  of  conven- 
tional  automobiles. 
In  the  above  description  the  terms  non-volatile  and  non-combustible 
were  used.  It  is  to  be  understood  they  are  intended  to  be  the 
same;  that  is,  simply,  gas  that  will  not  burn. 
Again,  the  term  storage  has  been  used,  primarily  with  respect 
to  the  hydrogen  storage  area  7.  It  is  not  intended  that  the  term 
"storage"  be  taken  literally,  in  fact,  it  is  not  storage,  but  a 
temporary  holding  area.  With  respect  to  area  7,  this  area  retains 
a  sufficient  amount  of  hydrogen  for  immediate  start-up. 
Other  terms,  features,  apparatus,  and  the  such  have  been  des- 
cribed  with  reference  to  a  preferred  embodiment.  It  is  to  be 
understood  modifications  and  alternatives  can  be  had  without 
departing  from  the  spirit  and  scope  of  the  invention. 

1. A  combustion  system  comprising: 
a  source  of  hydrogen  gas, 
a  hydrogen/oxygen  generator, 
a  housing  having  a  water  reservoir  for  retaining  natural  water 
therein  and  a  gas  collection  chamber  maintaining  a  preset 
volume  of  gas  under  pressure, 
a  pair  of  similar  non-oxidizing  plates  positioned  in  said 
water  reservoir, 
a  direct  current  voltage  source  connected  to  said  plates  to 
disassociate  the  hydrogen  atoms  and  oxygen  atoms  from  said 
water  molecules,  and 
a  gas  mixing  chamber, 
means  connecting  the  hydrogen  gas  from  said  hydrogen  source 
to  said  mixing  chamber, 
a  fuel  linear  control  valve  in  said  hydrogen  gas  connecting 
means  for  regulating  the  hydrogen  gas  flow  to  said  mixing  means, 
said  fuel  linear  control  valve  including  a  port  and  a  linear 
element  in  said  port  regulating  the  opening  therein, 
a  source  of  non-volatile  gas, 
means  connecting  the  non-volatile  gas  from  said  non-volatile 
source  to  said  mixing  chamber, 
ambient  air  intake  means  connected  to  the  input  of  said  mixing 
chamber  for  combining  air  with  said  hydrogen  gas  and  said  non- 
volatile  gasses, 
a  gas  burner  having  said  controlled  amount  of  hydrogen  gas 
combined  with  said  non-volatile  gas  and  ambient  air  from  said 
air-intake  means  fed  thereto. 

2.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  ambient  air- 
intake  means  further  comprises  a  housing  having  a  variably 
positioned  plate  valve  thereover  for  controlling  the  amount 
of  air-intake  to  said  mixing  chamber. 
3.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  further  comprising  a  housing 
in  said  hydrogengas  connecting  means  having  intake  and  outlet 
means  and  a  port  intermediate  therein  and  wherein  said  linear 
element  is  positioned  in  said  port. 
4.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  linear  element 
is  a  tapered  structure. 
5.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  4  further  including  a  rod 
mechanism  connected  to  said  tapered  structure,  and  means  for 
varying  said  tapered  structure  relative  to  said  port. 
6.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  mixing  chamber 
comprises  a  quenching  apparatus  at  its  hydrogen  gas  input  and 
a  quenching  apparatus  at  its  non-volatile  gas  input. 
7.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  gas  mixing 
chamber  comprises  at  its  uppermost  region  a  trap  area;  and 
wherein  said  hydrogen  gas  connection  to  said  mixing chamber 
is  in  the  uppermost  region  of  said  trap  area. 
8.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim 7  wherein  said  ambient  air 
intake  is  in  the  lowermost  region  of  said  trap. 
9.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  8  wherein  said  ambient  air 
intake  means  comprises  a  control  valve  and  wherein  said  non- 
combustible  gas  intake  means  comprises  a  control  valve,  said 
valves  adjustable  to  permit  predetermined  ratio  mixtures  of 
air  and  non-combustible  gas  to  enter  said  mixing  chamber. 

10.  A  combustion  system  of  Claim  8  wherein  said  ambient  air 
intake  provides  a  hydrogen  release  for  excess  hydrogen  in  said 
trap  area  in  said  combustion  chamber. 
11.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  further  comprising  a 
control  valve  connected  to  said  burner  and  said  hydrogen  gas 
fuel  connection  means  for  controlling  the  flow  of  gas  during 
on  and  off  operation  of  said  combustion  system. 
12.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim 7  wherein  said  control  valve 
connected  to  said  burner  is  a  pressure  regulated  valve. 
13.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  gas  mixing 
chamber  outlet  comprises  a  source  of  oil  spray. 
14.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  7  further  comprising  housing 
means  for  enclosing  said  mixing  chamber,  a  first  opening  in 
said  housing  for  the  intake  of  air,  and  a  second  opening  in 
said  housing  for  the  release  of  hydrogen  gas  that  may  be  en- 
trapped  therein. 
15.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  source  of 
hydrogen  gas  is  a  hydrogen  gas  generator  operable  to  release 
hydrogen  and  oxygen  from  water. 
16.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  15  wherein  said  hydrogen 
gas  generator  comprises  a  housing  having  an  upper  enclosed 
area  for  retaining  hydrogen  gas  released  by  said  generator. 
17.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1,  wherein  said  hydrogen 
gas  gen-erator  upper  enclosed  area  further  comprises  a  pressure 
relief  valve  operable  upon  the  hydrogen  gas  retained  therein 
exceeding  a  predetermined  amount. 

18.Thecomb-ustion  system  of  claim  17,  wherein  said  hydrogen  gas 
generator  further  comprises  a  sensing  switch  connected  to  said 
electrical  source  and  said  pressure  relief  valve  and  operable 
to  disconnect  said  electrical  source  when  said  combustion  system 
is  inoperable. 
19. Thecombustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  means  for  con- 
necting  said  hydrogen  gas  to  said  mixing  chamber  comprises  one- 
way  check  valve. 
20.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  means  for 
connecting  said  hydrogen  gas  to  said  mixing  chamber  further 
comprises  a  quenching  assembly. 
21.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  1,  wherein  said  gas  burner  is 
an  internal  combustion  engine,  and  wherein  said  source  of  non- 
volatile  gasses  is  the  exhaust  for  gasses  of  said  engine. 
22.  The  combustion  system  of  Claim  21  further  comprising  an  oil 
source  and  an  oil  spray  connected  thereto  and  to  said  mixing 
chamber. 
23.  The  combustion  system  of  claim  1  wherein  said  mixture  of 
hydrogen,  non-volatile  gasses,  and  ambient  air  have  a  burn 
velocity  rate  similar  to  that  of  gasoline  and  other  gasses. 











