JEuropaisches  
Patentamt 
European  Patent  Office 
Office  europeen  des  brevets 
11)  Publication  number: 0  098  897 
A2 
©  EUROPEAN  PATENT  APPLICATION 
@  Application  number:  82111595.3  ©Int.  CI.3:  H  01  F  31/00 
@  Date  of  filing:  14.12.82 
©  Priority:  09.04.82  US  367051  ©  Applicant:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US) 
@  Date  of  publication  of  application: 
25.01.84  Bulletin  84/4  ©  Inventor:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
©  Designated  Contracting  States:  Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US) 
AT  BE  CH  DE  FR  GB  IT  LI  LU  NL  SE 
©  Representative:  Wasmeier,  Alfons,  Dipl.-lng.  et  al, 
Postfach  382  Greflingerstrasse  7 
D-8400  Regensburg(DE) 
M 
< 
is 
0) 
00 
00 
0) 
o 
©  Electrical  generator  utilizing  magnetized  particles. 
An  electrical  particle  generator  comprising  a  non- 
magnetic  pipe  in  a  closed  loop  having  a  substantial  amount 
of  magnetized  particles  encapsulated  therein.  A  magnetic 
accelerator  assembly  positioned  on  said  pipe  having  an 
inductive  primary  winding  and  a  low  voltage  input  to  said 
winding.  A  secondary  winding  positioned  on  said  pipe 
opposite  to  said  primary  winding.  Upon  voltage  being 
applied  to  said  primary  winding  said  magnetized  particles 
are  passed  through  said  magnetic  accelerator  assembly  with 
increased  velocity.  The  velocity  accelerated  particles  con- 
tinuing  through  said  pipe  induce  an  electrical  voltage/current 
potential  as  they  pass  through  the  secondary  winding.  The 
increased  secondary  voltage  is  utilized  in  an  amplifier 
arrangement. 

An  electrical  particle  generator  comprising  a  non-magnetic 
pipe  in  a  closed  loop  having  a  substantial  amount  of  magnetized 
particles  encapsulated  therein.  A  magnetic  accelerator  assembly 
positioned  on  said  pipe  having  an  inductive  primary  winding  and 
a- low  voltage  input  to  said  winding.  A  secondary  winding 
positioned  on  said  pipe  opposite  to  said  primary  winding.  Upon 
voltage  being  applied  to  said  primary  winding  said  magnetized 
particles  are  passed  through  said  magnetic  accelerator  assembly 
with  increased  velocity.  The  velocity  accelerated  particles 
continuing  through  said  pipe  induce  an  electrical  voltage/current 
potential  as  they  pass  through  the  secondary  winding.  The 
increased  secondary  voltage  is  utilized  in  an  amplifier  arrange- 
ment. 
BACKGROUND  AND  PRIOR  ART 
The  prior  art  teachings  expound  the  fundamental  principle 
that  a  magnetic  field  passing  through  inductive  windings  will 
generate  a  voltage/current  or  enhance  the  voltage  thereacross 
if  the  winding  is  a  secondary  winding. 
It  is  also  taught  by  the  prior  art  that  a  magnetic  element 
in  a  primary  inductive  field  will  be  attracted  at  one  end  of  the 
coil  and  repelled  at  the  other.  That  is  a  moving  magnetic 
element  will  be  accelerated  in  motion  by  the  attraction  and 
repulsion  of  the  magnetic  field  of  the  primary  inductive  winding. 
In  the  conventional  step-up  transfer  the  voltage  across 

will  impart  further  magnetic  force  to  the  particles.  This 
magnetic  attraction  and  the  repulsion  considerably  enhances 
the  motion  of  the  discrete  particles  within  the  pipe.  The 
particles  are  ejected  from  the  area  of  the  accelerator  with 
an  increased  velocity  motion. 
The  magnetic  elements  proceed  in  the  closed  loop  pipe  at 
a  speed  considerably  greater  than  their  normal  movement  due 
to  the  accelerator  action.  As  the  magnetic  elements  pass  through 
the  core  of  the  secondary  winding  there  is  induced  a  voltage 
therein.  In  this  way  a  much  greater  voltage  is  induced  in  the 
secondary  winding  of  the  transformer. 
OBJECTS 
It  is  principal  object  of  the  present  invention  to  provide 
an  electrical  generator  capable  of  producing  a  voltage/current 
much  greater  in  magnitude  hereintofore  possible. 
Another  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide  such 
an  electrical  generator  utilizing  magnetized  elements  and  a 
magnetic  accelerator. 
Another  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide  such 
an  electrical  generator  that  can  control  the  amplitude  of  the 
output. 
Anothet  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide  such 
an  electrical  generator  that  may  be  utilized  with  direct  current, 
alternating  current,  pulsed,  or  other  configurations  of  waveforms. 
Another  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide  such 

an  electrical  generator  that  may  be  utilized  in  a  single  phase 
or  three  phase  electrical  system. 
Still  another  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide 
a  generator  for  developing  magnetized  particles  for  use  in  an 
electrical  particle  accelerator. 
A  further  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide 
such  an  electrical  generator  that  utilizes  components  readily 
available  are  adaptable  to  a  simplified  embodiment. 
Other  objects  and  features  of  the  present  invention  will 
become  apparent  from  the  following  detailed  description  where 
taken  in  conjunction  with  the  drawings  in  which: 
BRIEF  DESCRIPTION  OF'DRAWINGS 
Figure  1  is  a  simplified  illustration  of  the  principles 
of  the  invention  shown  partly  in  crossection  and  partly 
pictorially. 
Figure  2  is  an  electrical  schematic  illustration  of  the 
embodiment  of  Figure  1. 
Figure  3  is  an  illustration  similar  to  Figure  2  but 
adaptable  to  3  phase. 
Figure  4  is  a  first  alternative  arrangement  in  a  preferred 
illustration  of  the  invention. 
Figure 5  is  another  alternative  arrangement  in  a  preferred 
illustration  of  the  invention. 
Figure  6  is  another  alternative  arrangement  in  a  preferred 
illustration  of  the  invention. 

Figure  7  is  another  alternative  arrangement  in  a  preferred 
illustration  of  the  invention. 
Figure  8  is  another  alternative  arrangement  in  a  preferred 
illustration  of  the  invention. 
Figure  9  is  an  alternative  arrangement  for  a  magnetic  drive 
accelerator  assembly. 
Figure  10  is  a  mechanical  illustration  of  a magnetic  particle 
generator  for  developing  magnetic  particles  utilized  in  the  . 
present  invention. 
DETAILED  DESCRIPTION  OF  INVENTION 
With  particular  reference  to  Figures  1  and  2  there  is 
illustrated  the  invention  in  its  mostly  simplified  schematic 
embodiment. 
The  system  of  the  invention  comprises  a  primary  winding 
coil  magnetic  accelerator  assembly  10,  a  closed  loop  non-magnetic 
pipe  30,  and  a  secondary  winding  20. 
The  magnetic  accelerator  assembly  comprises  primary  windings 
12  a  magnetic  core  14  and  voltage  taps  16.  The  primary  windings 
are  positioned  around  end  32  of  closed  loop  pipe  30  or  tubing 
of  non-magnetic  material. 
At  the  opposite  end  34  of  the  closed  loop  pipe  30  there  is 
positioned  thereon  secondary  windings  20.  A  voltage  tap  22.on 
secondary  winding  20  permits  the  utilization  of  the  voltage 
induced  therein. 
Within  the  pipe  30  there  is  encapsulated  a  substantial 

quantity  of  magnetic  elements  40  of  Figure  2.  The  elements  40 
must  be  sufficiently  light  to  be  freely  mobile.  Therefore,  the 
elements  may  be  particles  suspended  in  a  fluid  medium  such  as 
gas,  liquid,  or  light-weight  movable  solid  particles  and  more 
preferably  gas.  In  the.application  of  suspended  solid  magnetic 
particles  it  may  be  desireable  to  evacuate  the  tubing  to  reduce 
the resistance  to  its  flow.  The  magnetized  elements  40  are 
discrete  elements,  that  is,  each  particle  or  a  miniscule  part 
thereof  is  separately  magnetized.  Further,  the  action  as  here- 
inafter described  is  an  action  upon  each particle  and  not  upon 
the mass. 
The  voltage  applied  to  terminals  16  of  the  primary  winding 
12 is  a  low  voltage  the  magnitude  of  which  may  be  utilized  as  an 
input  signal  control.  By  varying  the  input  voltage  the  accelera- 
tor  will  vary  the  velocity  of  the  speed  of  the  particles;  which, 
in  turn  vary  the  magnitude  of  the  voltage/current  output  of  the 
secondary  winding  20. 
The  output  22  of  the  secondary  transformer  20  is  a  high 
voltage/current  output. 
It  can  be  appreciated  that  the  system  of  Figures  1 and  2 
utilizing a  single  closed  loop  will  provide  a  single  phase  output 
in the  secondary  winding.  With  particular  reference  to  Figure  3 
there is  illustrated  a  closed  loop  system  having  three  parallel 
non-magnetic  tubes  31,  33,  and  35.  On  each  tube  or  pipe  there 
is  a  respective  secondary  winding  21,  23,  and  25. 
Each  of  the  secondary  windings  21,  23,  and  25  are  a  single 
phase  much  as  that  shown  in  Figures  1 and  2.  The  three  pipes, 
having a  common  junction  at  its  input  and  at  its  output,  with 
the  respective  three  secondary  pick-up  windings  provide  a 

balance  three-phase  (3)  electrical  system. 
The  electrical  power  generator  illustrated  in  Figure  4  is  in 
electrical  operation  identical  to  that  in  Figures  1  and  2.  The 
physical  configuration  of  the  arrangement  is  adapted  to  be  utiliz- 
ed  in  a  high  moisture  environment. An  insulating  coating  45  com- 
pletely covers  the  pipe  30,  as  well  as  all  electrical  windings. 
In  Figure  4  there  is  illustrated  that  increasing  the  number 
of  coils'with  a  given  size  winding  the  voltage/current  output  is 
increased.  The  physical  configuration  illustrated  is  such  that 
the  vertical  aspects  as  well  as  the  horizontal  aspect  are  utilized. 
In  this  way  a  large  diameter  pipe  can  be  used  with  a  substantial 
number  of  turns  of  heavy-gauge  high-current  wire. 
With  particular  reference  to  Figure  5  there  is  illustrated 
a coil  arrangement  49  that  utilizes  the  entire  magnetic  flux  in 
the closed  loop  tubing  47.  The  configuration  is  that  of  a 
coaxial  arrangement  with  the  primary  winding  43  as  a  center  core. 
Figure  6  illustrates  a  concentric  spiral  configuration  of 
the  tubing  50  having  the  secondary  windings  53  wound  over  it's 
entirety. 
In  Figure  7  the  particle  accelerator  10  is  wound  over  the 
tubing  30  much  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Figures  1  and  2. 
However,  in  this  embodiment  the  tubing  30  is  a  continuous  closed 
loop but  in  a  series,  parallel  configuration.  That  is  electri- 
cally there  are  three  secondary  windings  with  three  outputs 
whereas the  tubing  30  is  in  series  through  the  three  secondary 

windings. 
In  Figure  8  the  reverse of  that  configuration  of  Figure  7 
is  shown.  That  is  the  several  pick-up  coils  are  wound  in  series; 
whereas  the  tubing  80  is  not  a  continuous  tubing  as  that  of  the 
other  configuration.  Principally,  there  is  disclosed  an  input 
manifold  82  and  an  output  manifold  84  with  the  several  tubings 
60a  xxx  n  interconnecting  the  two  manifolds.  Each  one  of  the 
aforesaid  secondary  coils  70a  xxx  n  are  wound  over  its  respective 
tubing. 
The  magnetic  particle  accelerator  10  may  comprise  configura- 
tions  and  structures  distinctive  from  the  electrical  accelerator 
of  Figure  1.  With  reference  to  Figure  9  there  is  illustrated  a 
mechanical  particle  accelerator  100.  In  this  embodiment  the 
magnetic  particles  102  are  permanently  magnetized  prior  to  being 
encapsulated  in  non-magnetic  pipe  110.  The  particles  102  are 
accelerated  by  fan  blade  or  pump  104  rotated  by  mechanical  drive 
assembly  106.  The  mechanical  drive  for  the  assembly  106  may 
comprise  a  pulley  112  attached  by  a  belt  or  like  to  an  electric 
motor.  A  sealing  bearing  114  retains  the  particles  102  within 
the pipe  110. 

It  was  stated  above,  the  particles  traversing  the  secondary 
coils a  voltage/current  is  generated  therein.  It  must  be 
appreciated that  the  particles  are  not  in  actuality  traversing 
the coils  but  are  in  fact  traversing  the  magnetic  field  of  the 
coils. 
Again,  the  pipe  30  is  described  as  a  non-magnetic  pipe. 
There are  certain  non-magnetic  pipes  that  would  not  be  operable 
in  the  present  invention:  That  is,  the  pipe  30  must  be  capable 
of passing  magnetic  lines  of  force;  and  that  it  is  these  magnetic 
lines of  force  that  traverse  the  inductive  field  of  the  secondary 
windings 20  to  induce  a  voltage/current  therein. 
A  significant  feature  of  the  invention  illustrated  in  the 
various  embodiments  hereintofore  described,  as  the  generation 
of  the  magnetized  particles  encapsulated  in  the  tubing.  With 
reference  to  Figure  10,  there  is  illustrated  apparatus  for 
carrying  out  the  process  of  vaporizing  material  into  vaporized 
particles and  thereafter  magnetizing  the  particles  by  subjecting 
them to  a  magnetic  field. 
The  chamber  155  is  a  vacuated  chamber  haying  positioned  in 
its  lower  half  portion  a  pair  of  electrodes  160  and  162  of 
magnetizable  material.  A  source  of  voltage  150  and  152  provides 
voltage and  current  of  opposite  polarity  via  terminals  154  and 
156 to  the  electrodes  160  and  162  via  wire  connections  164  and 
166.  The  area  161  between  the  end  of  the  electrodes  160  and  162 
is the  spark  gap. 

Upon  the  application  of  power to  the  magnetizable  material 
electrodes  160  and  162  the  tip  of  the  electrodes  in  the  spark 
gap will  be  vaporized  into  particles  180. 
The  particles  180  rise,  use  and  enter  into  non-magnetic . 
pipe 165.  As  the  particles  progress  in  movement  they  pass 
between the  magnetic  field  generator  175.  The  particles  each 
take on  a  magnetic  charge  as  magnetized  particles  185  and  there- 
after are  discharged  via  port  190  to  the  electrical  particle 
generator  above  described. 
In  the  simplified  preferred  embodiment  of  Figures  1 and  2, 
as well  as  the  referred  preferred  embodiments  it  was  indicated 
that a  low  voltage  was  applied  to  the  particle  accelerator  10. 
Upon acceleration  a  high  voltage/current  would  be  induced  in  the 
secondary pickup  coil  20.  A  most  significant  advantage  of  the 
present invention  is  that  the  voltage  amplification  is  irrespec- 
tive to  the  wave-shape  of  the  input  voltage.  Specifically,  if 
the input  voltage  is  direct  current  a  direct  current  voltage 
will be  at  the  output;  an  alternating  voltage  will  result  in 
an alternating  voltage  at  the  output;  a  pulsed  voltage  will 
result in  a  pulsed  voltage  at  the  output;  and  a  voltage  of  any 
other  configuration  will  result  in  a  similar  configuration  at 
the output. 
Although certain  embodiments  have  been  shown  it  is  to  be 
understood  modifications  may  be  had  without  departing  from  the 
spirit and  scope  of  the  invention. 

1.  An  electrical  particle  generator  comprising; 
a  non-magnetic  closed-loop  tubing,  passing  magnetic 
lines  of  force, 
a  particle  accelerator  positioned  adjacent  to  one  end 
of  said  tubing, 
a  secondary  inductive  winding  positioned  adjacent  to 
said  tubing  opposite  to  the  position  of  said  accelerator, 
a  substantial  volume  of  magnetized  elements  encapsulated 
in  said  tubing; 
said  accelerator  having  means  to  provide  a  low  input 
voltage;  and 
said  secondary  winding  having  means  for  tapping  a  high 
voltage/current  for  utilization. 
2.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  1  wherein 
said  magnetized  elements  are  particles  suspended  in  a  fluid  medium. 
3.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  2  wherein 
said  magnetized  elements  is  a  gas. 
4.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  2  wherein 
said  magnetized  elements  is  a  liquid. 
5.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  2  wherein 
said  magnetized  elements  is  a  solid. 
6.  The  electrical  particle  accelerator  of  Claim  1  wherein 
said  particle  accelerator  is  an  electrical  magnetic  particle 
accelerator. 

7.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  claim l wherein 
said  particle  accelerator  further  comprises  a  primary  inductive 
winding,  and  a  low  voltage  input  to  said  winding. 
8.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  low  voltage  input  is  a  variable  voltage  input  for  controlling 
the  magnitude  of  the  voltage/current  induced  in  said  secondary 
winding. 
9.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  input voltage  to  said  primary  winding  is  direct  current, 
and  wherein  said  output  voltage  is  a  direct  current/voltage. 
10.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  input  voltage  to  said  primary  winding  is  alternating  current 
and  wherein  said  output  current/voltage  is  an  alternating  current/ 
voltage. 
11.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  input  voltage  to  said  primary  winding  is  pulsed,  and  wherein 
said  output  current/voltage  is  a  pulsed  current/voltage. 
12.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  input  voltage  to  said  primary  winding  has  variable  waveform, 
and  wherein  said  output.current/voltage  will  have  a  similar 
waveform  as  said  input  voltage  waveform. 
13.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein 
said  particle  accelerator  further  comprises  a  magnetic  forming 
core,  and  wherein  said  core  has  an  opening  slightly  greater  than 
the  outside  diameter  of  said  tubing  and  adapted  to  receive  the 
same. 

14.  The  electrical  particle  generator  of  Claim  1  said  tubing 
has  at  said  opposite  end  three  parallel  discrete  branches  and 
wherein  said  secondary  coil  is  three  discrete  coils  with  three 
discrete  outputs  one  of  each  positioned  over  one  of  each  of  said 
tubing  branches  thereby  providing  a  three  phase  output. 
15.  The  electrical  generator  of  Claim  1  wherein  said  particle 
accelerator  comprises  mechanical  pump  means,  and  wherein  said 
magnetized  elements  are  permanently  magnetized  elements. 
16.  An  assembly  for  providing  a  magnetized  particle  for 
utilization in  an  electrical  particle  generator  comprising  a 
chamber  and  a  pair  of magnetizable  material  electrodes  positioned  i 
therein, 
a  source  of  voltage/current  of  opposite  polarity  applied 
to said  electrodes, 
said  magnetizable  material  becoming  vaporized  upon  the 
application  of  said  voltage/current  in  said  electrodes, 
a  pipe  connected  to  said  chamber,  and  means  directing 
said vaporized  particles  to  said  pipe, 
a  magnetic  field  generator  having  the  other  end  of  said 
pipe positioned  within  its  magnetic  field, 
and  wherein  said  vaporized  particles  entering  and  being 
expelled through  said  pipe  become  magnetized  by  passing  through 
said magnetic  field  generator. 










