19) 
Europaisches  Patentamt 
European  Patent  Office 
Office  europeen  des  brevets 
©  Publication  number: 0  101  761 
A2 
.12) EUROPEAN  PATENT  APPLICATION 
©  Application  number:  82111597.9 
@  Date  of  filing:  14.12.82 
©  Int.  CI.3:  F  02  B  43/10 
C  12  Q  1/60 
©  Priority:  25.08.82  US  411977  ©  Applicant:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US) 
©  Date  of  publication  of  application: 
07.03.84  Bulletin  84/10  ©  Inventor:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
©  Designated  Contracting  States:  Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US)  - 
AT  BE  CH  DE  FR  GB  IT  LI  LU  NL  SE 
©Representative:  Wasmeier,AKons,Dipf.-tng.  tt  si, 
Postfach  382  Greflingerstrasse  7 
D-8400  Regensburg(DE) 
CM 
O 
is 
©  Controlled  hydrogen  gas  flame. 
@  A  sustained  controllable  gas  flame.  The  hydrogen 
generator  utilized  is  that  for  separating  gasses  from  water 
having  impurities  and  other  gasses  entrapped  therein.  The 
gasses  separated  from  the  water  comprises  hydrogen, 
oxygen,  and  the  non-combustible  gasses,  such  as  nitrogen. 
The  nitrogen,  oxygen  and  hydrogen  are  mixed  as  they  are 
released  in  the  process  by  the  generator  and  collected  as  the 
mixture  of  gasses  in  the  collection  chamber  of  the  generator. 
The  method  and  system  comprises  a  nozzle  of  a  given 
configuration  connected  through  a  line  to  the  uppermost 
region  of  the  gas  collection  chamber  of  the  hydrogen 
generator.  The  nitrogen  reduces  the  velocity  and  tempera- 
ture  of  the  burning  flame  from  that  of  the  hydrogen/oxygen 
mixture.  To  further  control  the  temperature  and  velocity  of 
the  burning  gas  mixture  there  is  added  to  the  collection 
chamber  other  non-burnable  gasses.  The  configuration  of 
the  nozzle  and  its  port  opening  is  dependant  on  the  mixture 
of  gasses  utilized  and  restricted  thereby.  An  increase  in  the 
size  of  the  flame  requires  additional  port  openings  to  prevent 
blowout. 
CROSS  REFERENCE: 
The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  utilized  in  the  present 
invention  is  that  disclosed  and  claimed  in  my  co-pending 
U.S.  patent  application,  Serial  Number:  302,807,  filed: 
September  16,  1981,  for:  HYDROGEN  GENERATOR  SYS- 
TEM.  In  that  process  for  separating  hydrogen  and  oxygen atoms  from  water  having  impurities,  the  water  Is  passed between  two  plates  of  similar  non-oxidizing  metal.  No 
electrolyte  is  added  to  the  water.  The  one  plate  has  placed 
thereon  a  positive  potential  and  the  other  a  negative 
potential  from  a  very  low  amperage  direct-current  power source.  The  sub-atomic  action  of  the  direct  current  voltage 
on  the  non-electrolytic  water  causes  the  hydrogen  and 
oxygen  atoms  to  be  separated  -  and  similarly  other  gasses 
entrapped  in  the  water  such  as  nitrogen.  The  contaminants 
in  the  water  that  are  not  released  are  forced  to  disassociate 
themselves  and  may  be  collected  or  utilized  and  disposed  of 
in  a  known  manner. 
The  direct  current  acts  as  a  static  force  on  the  water 
molecules;  whereas  the  non-regulated  rippling  direct  current 
acts  as  a  dynamic  force.  Pulsating  the  direct  current  further 
enhances  the  release  of  the  hydrogen  and  oxygen  atoms 
from  the  water  molecules. 


The  electrolysis  process  for  generating  hydrogen  and 
oxygen  gas  is  well  known  in  the  art.  It  is,  of course,  fur- 
ther  understood  with  a  proper  mixture  of  oxygen  gas,  the 
hydrogen  gas  is  combustible  and  under  ideal  conditions  a 
flame,  may  be  had.  Reference  is  made to  U.S.  Patent  Nuber: 
4,184,921..However, in that  the  burning  velocity  of  hydrogen 
is  265-325  cm./sec.  versus  37-45  cm./sec.  of  that  of  gasoline, 
the  velocity  of  hydrogen  is  so  great  that  the  hydrogen  en- 
suing  from  a  nozzle  will  not  under  ordinary  circumstances 
sustain  a  flame. 
Therefore,  to  sustain  a  flame at  a  nozzle  attached  to  a 
hydrogen  generator  the  burning  velocity  of  the  hydrogen  gas 
must  be  reduced. 
It  has  been  found  that  all  water  in  its  natural  state 
whether  it  be  tap  water,  well  water,  sea  water,  or  fresh 
water  is a saturate  of  ambient  air.  Further,  in that  ambient 
air  contains  a  substantial  amount  of  nitrogen,  all  natural 
water  will  have  entrapped  therein  nitrogen.  Again,  the  per- 
centage  of  nitrogen  entrapped  in  natural  water  has  been  de- 
termined  to  be  a fixed  percentage  and  very  uniform  at  seventeen 
(17%)  percent  ---  irrespective  of  the  source  of  the  water  or 
its  impurities.  Hence,  a  natural  water gas  analysis  will 
show  a  seventeen  percent  of  nitrogen  relative to  the  hydrogen 
and  oxygen. 

The  nozzle  connected  to  the  collection  chamber  via  an 
appropriate  line,  has  a  port  opening  of  a  controlled  size 
and  configuration,  related  to  the  size  of the  flame  and  the 
temperature  and  velocity  of  the  burning  gas  mixture.  To 
maintain  the  flame,  that  is  to  prevent  blowout,  additional 
nozzles  are  included  when  the  overall  flame  size  is  to  be 
increased. 
OBJECTS: 
It  is  accordingly  a  principal  object  of  the  present 
invention  to  provide  a  new  and  improved  hydrogen/oxygen 
generator  that  is  operable  from  a  water  source  that  provides 
hydrogen/oxygen  output  that  will  have  a sustained  burn. 
Another  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide 
a  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  that  in  addition  to  the  hydrogen 
and  oxygen  gasses  releases  non-combustible  nitrogen  gas 
capable  of  reducing  the  burning  velocity  and  temperature  of 
a  pure  hydrogen/oxygen  flame. 
A  further  object  of  the  present  invention  is  to  provide 
a  hydrogen  generator  that includes the  controlled  addition  of 
other  non-combustible  gasses to  the  gas  chamber  thereof  to 
thereby  further  control  the  burning  velocity  and temperature 
of  the  hydrogen  gas. 
Other  objects  and  features  of  the present  invention  will 
become  apparent  from  a  reading  of  the  detailed  description 

of  the  preferred  embodiment  taken  in  conjunction  with  the 
single  figure  drawings  in  which: 
BRIEF  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  DRAWINGS: 
Figure  1  is  a  crossection  of  a  hydrogen  generator  il- 
lustrating  the  features  of  the present  invention  in  its  most 
preferred  embodiment  incorporated  therein. 
Figure  2  schematically  shows  the  increased  number  of 
nozzle  ports to  increase  the flame  size. 
DETAILED  DESCRIPTION  OF  DRAWINGS: 
The  hydrogen  generator  10  is  that  of my  co-pending  patent 
application,  supra.  This  generator  comprises a  closed  water- 
tight  housing  12  having  therein  natural  water  13.  Submerged 
in  the water  13  is  a  pair  of  plates  15  (one  not  shovm) 
having  a  direct  current  low  amperage  voltage,  via'connector 
11,  applied  thereto. As  set  forth  in  my  co-pending  patent 
application supra,  the electrical  potential  applied  to  the 
similar non-oxidizing  metal plates  is  a  sub-atomic  action. 
In  this way  the  hydrogen  atoms  14  a  xxx  n and the  oxygen 
atoms  a  xxx  n  are released from  the  water  molecule. 
Unlike  the  electrolysis  process  for  generating  hydrogen 
from  distilled  water,  the  hydrogen  generator  of  my  afore- 
mentioned  patent  application,  utilizes  water  13  that  need 
not be  pure  ---  simply  any  water  irrespective  of  contaminents 
and  source. 

Natural  water  such  as  tap,  well,  sea,  or  fresh  water  is 
an  absorber  of  ambient  air.  Ambient  air  in  turn,  contains 
a  substantial  amount  of  nitrogen  gas.  Water  as  an absorbar 
of  ambient  air  will  entrap  seventeen  percent  (17%)  of  ni- 
trogen  gas;  that  is  natural  water,absorbs  seventeen  percent 
(17%)  of  nitrogen  gas  in  comparison  to  its  hydrogen  and  oxygen 
gas  content.  In  operation  of  the  hydrogen  generator,  in  that 
it is  a  subatomic  or  force-type  of  generator  the  gasses  in 
the  water  will  be  released.  Therefore, when  natural  water 
is  used  the  nitrogen  gas  will  be  released  together  with  the 
hydrogen  and  oxygen  gasses. 
In  the  preferred  embodiment  utilizing  tap  water,  the 
nitrogen  gasses  16  a  xxx n  are  intermixed  with  the  hydrogen 
gasses  14  a  xxx  n  and  the  oxygen  gasses  18  a  xxx  n  in  the 
chamber  19  of  the  hydrogen  generator  10. 
Upon  release  of  the  gasses  via  line  24  and  nozzle  20 
and  then  port  22  the  gas  mixture  is  ignited  to  provide 
flame  25. 
The  flame  25  is  sustained  in  that  the  nitrogen  gasses 
16  a  xxx n  reduces  the  burning  velocity  and  temperature  of 
the  hydrogen  gas  14  a  xxx  n. 
A  realistic  and  practical  manner of  further  controlling 
the  burning  velocity  and  temperature  of  the  hydrogen  gasses 
14  a  xxx  n,  is by  adding non-combustible  gasses  directly  to 
the hydrogen  and  oxygen  gasses  generated.  This  is  accomplished 

by  inlet  30  to  the upper  gas  chamber  19  of  the  hydrogen 
generator.  Valve  means  35  is  adjustable  to  control  the  amount 
of  non-combustible  gasses  16  a  xxx  n,  added  to  the  gas chamber 19 
The  nozzle  20  connected  to  the  chamber  19  of  the  generator 
10  via  line  17,  is  of  a  given  congiguration  to  permit  a  pre- 
determined  quantity  of  gasses  to  be  expelled  from  the  port  22. 
The  port  size  is  dependant  on  the  gasses  generated,  and  collected 
in  the  chamber  19, the  pressure  of  the  chamber  19  of  the  gener- 
ator  10,  and  the  size  of  the  flame  dexired. 
To  increase the  size  of  the  flame  25  would  appear  to  be  a 
simple  matter  of  increaseing  the  rate  of  gasses  generzted: 
However;  an  increase  of  gasses  merely  causses  a  blowout  at  the 
port  22  opening  of  the  nozzle  20.  This  flame blowout  will occur 
since  an  increase  in  hydrogen  gas  generation  disrupts  the  ratio 
of  the  initial  mixture even  though  the percentages  remain  const- 
ant.  Typically,  tap  water  will  contain  62%  hydrogen,  31%  oxygen, 
and  17%  nitrogen.  In  actuality  the  percentages  may  be  somewhat 
less  dependant  on the  other  gasses  that  may  be  trapped  in  the 
tap  water.  The  increase  in  production  will  not  affect  the per- 
centages  but  it  must  be appreciated  that  the  volume  of  the gasses 
will  be  proportionately  increased.  In  turn,  the volume  being 
directly  related  to  pressure,  the  pressure  will  be  similarly  in- 
creased. 
To  effectively  reduce  or  counter  the  velocity  due  to  the 
increased  pressure  of  the  hydrogen  gas  mixture  in  the  chamber  
19 
a  larger  port  22  would  appear  to  be  capable  of  handling  the 
increased  pressure.  But,  as  aforesaid,  a  larger  port  and  the 

and  the  concentration  of  the  high  velocity  hydrogen gas  mixture 
will  cause  a  flame  blowout.  To  sustain  a  larger  flame  with  in- 
creased  pressure,  additional  nozzles  2a xxx  n  having  ports 
22  a  xxx  n  or  a  nozzle  20  with  multiple  ports  20 a  xxx n  as 
shown  in  Figure  2,  of  a  port  size  a  predetermined  as  aforesaid, 
will  be  added  to  the  line  17.  Accordingly,  the larger  the  des- 
ired  flame  the  greater  the  number  of  ports. 
It  can  be  understood  that  a  port  that  will  not  sustain  a flame 
does  present  a  safety  factor  relative  to  hydrogen  spark  back  to 
the chamber  19.  Hence,  controlling  the  size  of  the  port  22  in 
effect  as  a  quencher  of  hydrogen  spark  back. 
Although  certain  and  specific  embodiments  are  shown  and  
deser- 
ibed  it  is  within  the  scope  and  spirit  of  the  present  invention 
to  include  alternatives  and  modifications  thereto. 

1.  A  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  capable  of  sustaining  the  con- 
trolled  burning  of  the  gasses generated  thereby  comprising: 
a  housing  having  natural  water  therein  including  en- 
trapped  non-combustible gasses, 
a  pair  of similar  non-oxidizing  plates  having  direct 
current  low  amperage  voltage  applied  thereto  to  provide  a 
sub-atomic,  force-type  action  on  said  water, 
said  action  liberating  the  hydrogen  atoms and  oxygen 
atoms  from  said  water  molecule,  and  further  liberating  said 
non-combustible  gasses Arom  said  water, 
a  gas  collection  chamber  in  said generator for  collecting 
and  intermixing  said  released  gasses, 
a  nozzle  attached  to  the  gas  collection  chamber  of  said 
housing  including  an  inlet  for  receiving  the  mixture of 
hydrogen,  oxygen  and  non-combustible  gas, 
said  nozzle  of.a  predetermined  size  and  configuration 
on  a  port  for  expelling  said  mixed  gasses,  and  means  for  ig- 
niting  said  mixed  gasses. 
2.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  1  wherein  said 
non-combustible  gas  is  nitrogen. 
3.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  2  wherein  said 
gasses  intermixed  in  said collection  chamber  of  the  hydrogen 
generator comprise  62%  hydrogen,  31%  oxygen,  and  17%  nitrogen. 

4.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  3  wherein  said 
means  comprises  an  inlet  connected  to  said  gas  collection 
chamber  of  said  housing,  and  means  for  introducing  non-com- 
bustible  gasses  to  said  chamber. 
5.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  4  wherein  said 
inlet  further  comprises  valve  means  for  controlling  the  amount 
of  non-combustible  gasses  introduced  to  said  chamber. 
6.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  5  wherein  said 
port  on  said  nozzle  of  a  predetermined  size  and  configuration 
is  related  to  the  ratio  of  gasses  in  said  collection  chamber 
to  provide  a  flame  of  a  predetermined  velocity  and  size  at 
said  port. 
7.  The  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  of  Claim  6  wherein  said 
port  size  and  configuration  is  maintained  with  a  plurality 
of  ports  to  thereby  permit  a  proportional  increase  in  flame 
size. 


