J 
Europaisches  Patentamt 
European  Patent  Office 
Office  europeen  des  brevets 
0111  574  B1 ©  Publication  number: 
©  EUROPEAN  PATENT  SPECIFICATION 
©  Date  of  publication  of  patent  specification:  11.09.91  ©  Int.  Cl.5:  F02B  47/10,  F02B  43/10, 
F02M  21/02,  F02M  25/06, 
©  Application  number:  82111596.1  F23L  7/00  F23C  9/00 
©  Date  of  filing:  14.12.82 
Combustion  system  for  mechanical  drive  systems  using  gaseous  hydrogen  as  fuel. 
©  Proprietor:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US) 
@  Inventor:  Meyer,  Stanley  A. 
3792  Broadway 
Grove  City  Ohio  43123(US) 
Date  of  publication  of  application: 
27.06.84  Bulletin  84/26 
Publication  of  the  grant  of  the  patent: 
11.09.91  Bulletin  91/37 
Designated  Contracting  States: 
AT  BE  CH  DE  FR  GB  IT  LI  LU  NL  SE 
©  Representative:  Wasmeier,  Alfons,  Dipl.-lng.  et 
al 
Postfach  382  Greflingerstrasse  7 
W-8400  Regensburg(DE) 
References  cited: 
DE-A-  2  641  228 
FR-A-  1  178  241 
FR-A-  2  383  247 
GB-A-  2  079  441 
US-A-  3  971  847 
US-A-  4  059  076 
FR-A-  721  354 
FR-A-  2  096  416 
GB-A-  1  517  799 
US-A-  3  648  668 
US-A-  3  982  878 
US-A-  4  111  160 
CD 
ID 
Note:  Within  nine  months  from  the  publication  of  the  mention  of  the  grant  of  the  European  patent,  any  person 
may  give  notice  to  the  European  Patent  Office  of  opposition  to  the  European  patent  granted.  Notice  of  opposition 
shall  be  filed  in  a  written  reasoned  statement.  It  shall  not  be  deemed  to  have  been  filed  until  the  opposition  fee 
has  been  paid  (Art.  99(1)  European  patent  convention). 
LU 
Rank  Xerox  (UK)  Business  Services 

EP  0  111  574  B1 
Description 
This  invention  refers  to  a  combustion  system 
according  to  the  introductory  part  of  claim  1  . 
The  hydrogen-oxygen  generation  according  to 
this  system  is  a  demand  system,  in  which  the 
hydrogen/oxygen  is  generated  only  upon  the  need. 
The  generation  is  controlled  in  quantity  by  the 
need,  such  as  an  accelerator  for  an  automotive 
device. 
From  FR-A-1  178  241  a  process  for  operating 
a  combustion  system  for  mechanical  drive  systems 
using  gaseous  fuel  is  known,  which  comprises  a 
hydrogen/oxygen  generator,  a  water  reservoir  for 
retaining  water  therein,  a  pair  of  similar  electrode 
plates  positioned  in  said  water  reservoir,  a  direct 
current  voltage  source  connected  to  said  plates  to 
supply  an  electrical  voltage/low  current  thereto  and 
to  dissociate  the  hydrogen  gas  atoms  and  oxygen 
gas  atoms  from  said  water  molecules,  a  gas  mixing 
chamber,  air  intake  means  for  combining  air  with 
the  mixture  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen  gases,  a  gas 
burner  having  a  controlled  amount  of  mixed  gases 
from  the  mixing  chamber  fed  thereto,  means  to 
ignite  said  gas/air  mixture  in  said  burner,  and  de- 
mand  controlled  means  for  varying  the  release  of 
said  hydrogen/oxygen  gas  atoms  from  said  water 
molecules  to  thereby  accelerate  and  decelerate  the 
ignition  of  the  gas/air  mixture  in  said  burner.  The 
hydrogen  generator  produces  a  uniform  gas  mix- 
ture  (hydrogen,  oxygen  and  ambient  air)  by  an 
electrical  polarization  effect.  The  gas  mixture  is 
introduced  to  and  intermixed  with  ambient  air  to 
produce  an  extra  supply  of  gases  beyond  the  ca- 
pacity  of  the  fuel  cell.  The  combustible  gas  mixture 
enters  into  the  combustion  chamber  and  by  spark 
ignition  acts  upon  a  mechanically  displaceable  pis- 
ton.  The  supply  of  hydrogen  gas  determines  the 
engine  speed  and  is  directly  related  to  the  applied 
voltage  by  way  of  the  electrical  polarization  pro- 
cess.  This  system  uses  pure  water,  which  is  slight- 
ly  acid,  and  metallic  electrodes,  one  each  within 
interconnected  chambers;  one  electrode  generates 
oxygen  and  the  other  generates  hydrogen  from  the 
water  supply  within  a  third  chamber.  Moreover,  this 
system  uses  the  combination  of  air  and  oxygen 
plus  hydrogen  mixed  within  the  gas  mixing  charts 
ber  and  delivered  to  the  gas  burner. 
FR-A-2  096  416  discloses  a  gas  fuel  internal 
combustion  engine,  which  includes  a  mixing  cham- 
ber,  within  which  air,  hydrogen  gas  and  exhaust 
gases  are  mixed  and  the  mixture  is  fed  into  the 
combustion  chamber,  where  it  is  ignited  and  where 
exhaust  gases  exit  through  a  manifold  and  pass 
through  a  heat  exchanger,  which  heats  the  hy- 
drogen  fuel  stored  in  a  tank.  Liquid  hydrogen  within 
an  insulated  tank  is  gasified  and  hydrogen  gas 
flows  into  a  gas  store  and  from  there  into  a  mixing 
chamber.  Part  of  the  exhaust  gas  from  the  combus- 
tion  chamber  is  passed  to  the  mixing  chamber 
separate  from  the  hydrogen  gas  and  the  oxygen 
gas.  In  addition,  air  is  supplied  into  the  mixing 
5  chamber.  The  gaseous  fuel  mixed  with  air  is 
pumped  under  relatively  high  pressure  into  the 
engine  combustion  chamber  to  achieve  a  high 
compression  ratio 
FR-A-2  382  247  discloses  a  method  and  an 
io  apparatus  for  generating  oxygen  and  hydrogen  gas 
in  an  electrolytical  manner;  the  apparatus  com- 
prises  at  least  one  pair  of  electrodes,  which  partly 
are  emerged  into  electrolytical  water  and  conduct 
current,  which  is  a  pulsed  dc  current.  The  electrical 
75  source  is  a  constant  current  source,  and  an  elec- 
trical  commutator  is  provided  for  operating  the 
switching  on  and  off  of  the  current  and  thus  gen- 
erates  the  electrolysis  current,  which  pulsates  with 
the  period  of  the  pulses  and  at  controlled  intervals. 
20  With  this  method  and  apparatus  exclusively  oxygen 
and  hydrogen  gases  are  produced,  and  a  com- 
bined  gas  is  made  available  at  the  output  end  of  a 
pipe,  a  nozzle  or  the  like. 
It  is  an  object  of  this  invention  to  provide  a 
25  combustion  system  combined  from  a  source  of  any 
type  of  natural  water,  hydrogen  generator  for  de- 
velopping  the  hydrogen/oxygen  gases,  and  exhaust 
gases  incorporated  in  a  mechanical  drive  system. 
Such  combustion  system  of  the  present  inven- 
30  tion  is  characterised  in  that 
(a)  the  direct  current  voltage  source  is  a  source 
of  pulsed  direct  current  potential  for  dissociating 
the  hydrogen  and  oxygen  atoms  from  said  water 
molecules,  and  the  demand  control  means  var- 
35  ies  the  pulse  rate, 
(b)  an  exhaust  gas  mixing  chamber  is  connected 
with  the  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  and  with  an 
exhaust  gas  return  passage  of  the  gas  burner, 
and  the  gas  mixture  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen  is 
40  mixed  therein  with  exhaust  gases  to  adjust  the 
burn  rate  of  hydrogen, 
(c)  an  exhaust  gas  cooling  chamber  functioning 
as  a  spark  arrester  is  provided  upstream  of  the 
exhaust  gas  mixing  chamber, 
45  (d)  the  exhaust  gas  mixing  chamber  is  con- 
nected  via  a  pipeline  with  a  distribution  chamber 
from  which  the  mixed  gases  are  supplied  to  a 
pilot  light  line  and  to  a  main  line  with  a  jet 
nozzle, 
50  (e)  the  air  mixing  device  comprises  a  cone  at 
the  inlet  of  a  passage  leading  to  a  dispersing 
chamber  of  the  gas  burner,  the  gas  ejected  from 
the  nozzle  and  Intermixed  with  intake  air  is  sup- 
plied  via  said  cone  into  said  dispersing  cham- 
55  ber,  which  is  provided  with  outlet  ports  through 
which  the  combustible  gas  mixture  is  dispersed 
into  the  combustion  chamber  of  the  gas  burner. 
The  invention  now  will  be  described  by  way  of 

EPO  111  574  B1 
examples  with  reference  to  the  accompanying 
drawings: 
Figure  1  is  a  schematic  illustration  of  a  part 
of  the  present  invention  showing 
the  hydrogen/oxygen  generator, 
and 
Figure  2  is  another  part  of  the  invention 
showing  the  combustion  system. 
Figure  1  shows  the  hydrogen  source  10  which 
is  a  hydrogen/oxygen  generator.  The  water  reser- 
voir  2  is  filled  with  natural  water.  Immersed  in  the 
water  is  an  array  of  plates  3  of  similar  non-oxidizing 
material.  Applied  to  plates  3  is  a  source  27  of 
pulsed  direct  current  potential  via  electrical  inlet  27. 
The  action  of  the  pulsed  direct  current,  a 
voltage/current  potential,  on  the  plates  causes  the 
hydrogen  atoms  and  oxygen  atoms  to  become 
dissociated  from  the  water  molecule.  Because  the 
action  is  not  a  chemical  action  any  natural  water 
irrespective  of  source  may  be  utilized. 
Varying  either  the  potential  of  the  direct  current 
voltage  source  or  the  pulse  rate  of  the  pulsing  of 
the  direct  current  potential  will  vary  proportionally 
the  generation  of  the  hydrogen/oxygen.  Other  fac- 
tors  are  disclosed  for  varying  the  output  of  the 
generator.  To  replenish  the  expended  water  the 
generator  provides  a  continuous  water  source  1  . 
A  safety  valve  28  is  rupturable  upon  excessive 
gas  build-up.  Switch  29  is  a  gas  pressure  switch  to 
maintain  a  predetermined  gas  pressure  level  about 
a  regulated  low-volume. 
The  generated  hydrogen  gas  4  is  fed  via  pipe 
5  to  a  gas  mixing  chamber  7,  wherein  the  hy- 
drogen  gas  is  intermixed  with  exhaust  gases  22 
from  a  source  hereinafter  described. 
The  mixture  of  hydrogen  gas  4  and  exhaust 
gases  22  is  fed  via  pipe  line  9  to  a  carburettor  (air- 
mixture)  system.  The  gas  mixture  8  is  fed  through 
a  nozzle  to  a  chamber  in  a  jet  spray.  The  jet  spray 
of  gases  combines  with  the  intake  air  to  form  a  gas 
mixture  of  hydrogen  gas,  which  together  with  oxy- 
gen  is  entered  into  a  combustion  chamber. 
The  exhaust  gases  64,  the  residue  of  the  com- 
bustion,  now  comprise  an  exhaust  mixture  64. 
These  exhaust  gases  64  are  fed  via  pipe  line  24  to 
the  gas  mixing  chamber  40.  The  pipeline  24 
passes  through  cooling  chamber  50  for  cooling  the 
gases  therein.  The  cooling  chamber  50  also  func- 
tions  as  a  spark  arrestor  to  eliminate  the  possibility 
of  gas  ignition  inside  the  mixing  chamber  40.  The 
excess  exhaust  gases  are  expelled  into  the  atom- 
sphere. 
The  gases  generated  from  the  water  in  gener- 
ator  1  0  also  include  the  oxygen  component  of  the 
water  in  addition  to  nitrogen.  The  outlet  5  on  the 
generator  10  receives  the  oxygen  and  nitrogen 
gases  generated  thereby  and  feeds  the  same  to 
the  mixing  chamber  40.  The  flow  of  the  hydrogen 
gas  is,  of  course,  critical;  therefore,  there  is  incor- 
porated  in  line  5  a  gas  flow  valve  to  adjust  the 
hydrogen  flow. 
With  particular  reference  to  Figure  2  there  is 
5  illustrated  the  combustion  chamber  60.  The  gas 
mixture  8,  which  is  generated  and  mixed  in  the 
arrangement  of  Figure  1  ,  is  directed  by  pipe  line  9 
and  nozzle  11  to  the  cone  65.  The  gas  mixture 
combines  with  air  14  as  it  enters  cone  area  65.  The 
w  combined  gas  mixture,  atomized  by  the  jet  nozzle 
11  with  air  intake  14  is  directed  by  the  cone  65  to 
the  dispersing  chamber  66.  There,  the  gas  mixture 
15  is  further  mixed  with  air  14  to  form  combustible 
gas  15.  The  gas/air  mixture  is  dispersed  via  ports 
15  67a  xxx  67n  from  the  dispersing  chamber  66  into 
the  firing  area  of  the  combustion  chamber  60.  The 
gas  mixture  8  is  also  fed  by  pipeline  9  to  a  separa- 
tion  chamber  71  .  This  chamber  sections  off  a  con- 
trolled  amount  of  the  intake  gas  mixture  to  the  pilot 
20  light  line  58.  The  pilot  light  firing  gas  57  is  also 
sequenced  by  the  separation  chamber  71  such  as 
through  an  associated  mechanical  drive,  much  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  cylinder  of  an  automobile 
engine. 
25  The  mixed  gas  56a,  56n  ejected  from  ports  67a 
xxx  67n  of  the  dispensing  chamber  66  is  ignited  by 
the  pilot  combustion  57  and  thereby  causes  com- 
bustion  of  the  mainstream  gases.  As  the  exhaust 
gases  64  rise  upwardly  in  the  cylinder  61  of  the 
30  combustion  chamber  60  the  cone  63  captures  a 
portion  of  the  exhaust  gases  64.  The  captured 
exhaust  gas  is  returned  via  pipe  line  68  and  outlet 
74  to  the  combustion  process  as  set  in  Figure  1  or 
expelled  for  other  purposes.  The  major  portion  of 
35  the  exhaust  gases  64  by-pass  the  cone  63  and  rise 
further  to  the  outlet  exhaust  69  and  are  expelled  at 
opening  73. 
As  low-voltage  direct  current  is  applied  to  safe- 
ty  valve  28,  a  solenoid  is  activated,  which  applies  a 
40  control  voltage  to  the  hydrogen  generator  plates  3 
via  terminal  27  through  pressure  switch  29.  As  the 
electrical  power  activates  the  electric  solenoid,  hy- 
drogen  gas  is  caused  to  pass  through  a  flow  ad- 
justment  valve  and  then  outlet  pipe  5  for  utilization. 
45  A  gas  regulator  valve  is  utilized  to  reduce  the 
pressure  level  inside  the  hydrogen  generator  10. 
Once  hydrogen  generator  10  reaches  an  optimum 
gas  pressure  level,  pressure  switch  29  shuts  off 
electrical  power  to  the  hydrogen  exciters.  If  the 
50  chamber  pressure  exceeds  a  predetermined  level, 
the  safety  release  valve  28  is  activated  disconnect- 
ing  the  electrical  current  and  thereby  shutting  down 
the  entire  system  for  safety  inspection. 
55  Claims 
1.  A  combustion  system  for  mechanical  drive 
systems  using  gaseous  hydrogen  as  fuel,  com- 

EP  0  111  574  B1 
prising  a  hydrogen/oxygen  generator  (10)  pro- 
ducing  hydrogen  and  oxygen  gases  by  an 
electrical  polarization  process  and  mixing  the 
hydrogen  and  oxygen  gases  to  a  uniform  gas 
mixture,  having  a  water  reservoir  (2)  filled  with 
natural  water,  a  pair  of  similar  non-oxidizing 
plates  (3)  positioned  in  said  water  reservoir  (2), 
a  direct  current  voltage  source  (27)  connected 
to  said  plates  (3)  to  apply  an  electrical 
voltage/low  current  thereto  and  dissociate  the 
hydrogen  gas  atoms  and  oxygen  atoms  from 
said  water  molecules,  an  air  mixing  device 
which  is  provided  with  an  air  intake,  and  in 
which  air  is  mixed  with  the  mixture  of  hy- 
drogen  and  oxygen  gases,  a  gas  burner  (60) 
which  is  supplied  with  a  controlled  amount  of 
gas/air  mixture,  and  which  comprises  means 
(57,  58)  to  ignite  said  gas/air  mixture  in  said 
gas  burner  (60),  and  an  exhaust  gas  outlet,  the 
system  further  comprises  demand  control 
means  for  varying  the  release  of  said 
hydrogen/oxygen  gas  atoms  from  said  water 
molecules, 
characterised  in  that 
(a)  the  direct  current  voltage  source  (27)  is 
a  source  of  pulsed  direct  current  potential 
for  dissociating  the  hydrogen  and  oxygen 
atoms  from  said  water  molecules,  and  the 
demand  control  means  varies  the  pulse 
rate; 
(b)  an  exhaust  gas  mixing  chamber  (7)  is 
connected  with  the  hydrogen/oxygen  gener- 
ator  (10)  and  with  an  exhaust  gas  return 
passage  (68)  of  the  gas  burner  (60),  and  the 
gas  mixture  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen  is 
mixed  therein  with  exhaust  gases  (64)  to 
adjust  the  burn  rate  of  hydrogen, 
(c)  an  exhaust  gas  cooling  chamber  (50) 
functioning  as  a  spark  arrester  is  provided 
upstream  of  the  exhaust  gas  mixing  cham- 
ber  (7), 
(d)  the  exhaust  gas  mixing  chamber  (7)  is 
connected  via  a  pipeline  (9)  with  a  distribu- 
tion  chamber  (71)  from  which  the  mixed 
gases  are  supplied  to  a  pilot  light  line  (58) 
and  to  a  main  line  with  a  jet  nozzle  (11), 
(e)  the  air  mixing  device  comprises  a  cone 
(65)  at  the  inlet  of  a  passage  leading  to  a 
dispersing  chamber  (66)  of  the  gas  burner 
(60),  the  gases  ejected  from  the  nozzle  and 
intermixed  with  intake  air  are  supplied  via 
said  cone  (65)  into  said  dispersing  chamber, 
which  is  provided  with  outlet  ports  (67a  - 
67n)  through  which  the  combustible  gas 
mixture  is  dispersed  into  the  combustion 
chamber  of  the  gas  burner  (60). 
Revendications 
1.  Systeme  a  combustion  pour  la  propulsion  de 
systemes  mecaniques  utilisant  I'hydrogene  ga- 
zeux  comme  carburant  comprenant  un  genera- 
5  teur  d'hydrogene/oxygene  (10)  produisant  de 
I'hydrogene  et  de  I'oxygene  gazeux  par  un 
procede  d'electrolyse  et  melangeant  I'oxygene 
etl'hydrogene  gazeux  avec  obtention  d'un  me- 
lange  gazeux  uniforme,  ayant  un  reservoir 
10  d'eau  (2)  rempli  d'eau  naturelle,  une  paire  de 
plaques  nonoxydantes  similaires  (3)  disposees 
dans  le  reservoir  d'eau  (2),  une  source  de 
tension  continue  (27)  connectee  aux  plaques 
precitees  afin  de  leur  appliquer  une  tension 
J5  electrique/bas  courant  et  de  dissocier  les  mo- 
lecules  d'eau  precitee  en  hydrogene  et  oxyge- 
ne  gazeux,  un  dispositif  de  melange  d'air  muni 
d'une  admission  d'air  et  dans  lequel  de  I'air 
est  melange  avec  le  melange  d'hydrogene  et 
20  d'oxygene  gazeux,  un  bruleur  de  gaz  (60)  qui 
est  alimente  avec  une  quantite  controlee  de 
melange  de  gaz/air  et  qui  comprend  des 
moyens  (57,  58)  pour  enflammer  le  melange 
de  gaz/air  precite  dans  le  bruleur  de  gaz  (60) 
25  precite,  et  une  sortie  de  gaz  d'echappement,  le 
systeme  comprenant  en  outre  un  moyen  de 
controle  de  la  demande  pour  faire  varier  la 
liberation  d'hydrogene/oxygene  gazeux  a  partir 
des  molecules  d'eau  precitee  caracterise  en  ce 
30  que 
a)  la  source  de  tension  continue  (27)  est 
une  source  de  potentiel  de  courant  continu 
pulsatoire  pour  dissocier  les  molecules 
d'eau  precitees  en  hydrogene  et  oxygene  et 
35  le  moyen  de  controle  de  la  demande  fait 
varier  le  taux  d'impulsions; 
b)  une  chambre  de  melange  du  gaz 
d'echappement  (7)  est  reliee  au  generateur 
d'hydrogene/oygene  (10)  et  a  un  passage 
40  de  retour  du  gaz  d'echappement  (68)  du 
bruleur  (60)  et  le  melange  gazeux  d'hydro- 
gene  et  d'oxygene  y  est  melange  avec  les 
gaz  d'echappement  (64)  pour  regler  la  vi- 
tesse  de  combustion  de  I'hydrogene, 
45  c)  une  chambre  de  refroidissement  de  gaz 
d'echappement  (50)  fonctionnant  comme 
dispositif  d'arret  d'etincelles  est  prevue  en 
amont  de  la  chambre  de  melange  de  gaz 
d'echappement  (7), 
so  d)  la  chambre  de  melange  de  gaz  d'echap- 
pement  (7)  est  reliee  par  I'intermediaire 
d'une  canalisation  (9)  a  une  chambre  de 
distribution  (71)  a  partir  de  laquelle  les  gaz 
melanges  sont  amenes  a  une  conduite  d'al- 
55  lumage  pilote  (58)  et  a  une  conduite  princi- 
pale  avec  un  gicleur  (11), 
e)  le  dispositif  de  melange  d'air  comprend 
un  cone  (65)  a  I'entree  d'un  passage  ame- 

EPO  111  574  B1 
nant  a  une  chambre  de  dispersion  (66)  du 
bruleur  de  gaz  (60),  les  gaz  ejectes  du 
gicleur  et  melanges  a  I'air  admis  sont  ame- 
nes  par  I'intermediaire  du  cone  (65)  precite 
dans  la  chambre  de  dispersion  qui  est  mu- 
nie  d'orifices  de  sorties  (67a  -  67n)  a  travers 
lesquels  le  melange  gazeux  combustible  est 
disperse  dans  la  chambre  de  combustion 
du  bruleur  de  gaz  (60). 
Patentansprtiche 
1.  Verbrennungseinrichtung  fur  mechanische  An- 
triebssysteme  unter  Verwendung  von  Wasser- 
stoffgas  als  Brennstoff,  mit  einem 
Wasserstoff/Sauerstoff-Generator  (10),  der 
Wasserstoff-und  Sauerstoffgase  durch  einen 
elektrischen  Polarisiervorgang  erzeugt  und  die 
Wasserstoff-  und  Sauerstoffgase  zu  einem 
gleichformigen  Gasgemisch  mischt,  mit  einem 
mit  naturlichem  Wasser  gefulltem  Behalter  (2), 
einem  Paar  ahnlicher,  nichtoxydierender,  im 
Wasserbehalter  (2)  angeordneter  Platten  (3), 
einer  Gleichstromquelle  (27),  die  an  die  Platten 
(3)  angeschlossen  ist  und  eine  elektrische 
Spannung  geringer  Stromstarke  anlegt  sowie 
die  Wasserstoff-  und  Sauerstoffgas  atome  aus 
den  Wassermolekulen  dissoziiert,  eine  Luft- 
mischvorrichtung,  die  einen  Lufteinla/3  aufweist 
und  in  der  Luft  mit  dem  Gemisch  aus 
Wasserstoff-  und  Sauerstoffgasen  gemischt 
wird,  einem  Gasbrenner  (60),  der  mit  einer 
gesteuerten  Menge  an  Gas/Luft-Gemisch  ge- 
speist  wird  und  der  eine  Vorrichtung  (57,  58) 
zum  Zunden  des  Gas/Luft-Gemisches  im  Gas- 
brenner  (60)  aufweist,  sowie  einem  Abgasaus- 
lafi,  wobei  die  Einrichtung  ferner  eine  Bedarfs- 
steuervorrichtung  zur  Anderung  der  Freigabe 
der  Wasserstoff/Sauerstoffgasatome  aus  den 
Wassermolekulen  besitzt, 
dadurch  gekennzeichnet,  da/3 
a)  die  Gleichstromspannungsquelle  (27) 
eine  Quelle  gepulsten  Gleichstrompotentials 
zum  Dissoziieren  der  Wasserstoff-und  Sau- 
erstoffatome  aus  den  Wassermolekulen  ist, 
und  die  Bedarfssteuervorrichtung  die  Im- 
pulsrate  verandert, 
b)  eine  Abgasmischkammer  (7)  mit  dem 
Wasserstoff/Sauerstoff-Generator  (10)  und 
mit  einer  Abgasruckfuhrleitung  (68)  des 
Gasbrenners  (60)  verbunden  ist,  und  das 
Gasgemisch  aus  Wasserstoff  und  Sauerstoff 
darin  mit  Abgasen  (64)  gemischt  wird,  urn 
die  Brennrate  des  Wasserstoffes  einzustel- 
len, 
c)  eine  Abgaskuhlkammer  (50),  die  als 
Zundfunkensperre  wirkt,  stromaufwarts  in 
bezug  auf  die  Abgasmischkammer  (7)  ange- 
ordnet  ist, 
d)  die  Abgasmischkammer  (7)  uber  eine 
Leitung  (9)  mit  einer  Verteilkammer  (71) 
verbunden  ist,  aus  der  diegemischten  Gase 
in  eine  Leitung  (58)  fur  die  Pilotflamme  und 
in  eine  Hauptleitung  mit  einer  Strahldtise 
(11)  eingespeist  wird, 
e)  die  Luftmischvorrichtung  einen  Konus 
(65)  am  Einla/3  eines  zu  einer  Dispersions- 
kammer  (66)  des  Gasbrenners  (60)  fuhren- 
den  Kanales  aufweist,  wobei  die  Gase,  die 
aus  der  Duse  abgegeben  und  mit  Einlafiluft 
gemischt  werden,  uber  den  Konus  (65)  in 
die  Dispersionskammer  eingespeist  werden, 
die  mit  Auslafioffnungen  (67a  -  67n)  verse- 
hen  ist,  durch  die  das  brennbare  Gasge- 
misch  in  die  Brennkammer  des  Gasbren- 
ners  (60)  dispergiert  wird. 
10 
75 
20 
25 
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 

EPO  111  574  B1 
?  IFO1TT0  . 
m^ 
^o 
FIG.  I 

EPO  111  574  B1 
FIG.  2. 
68 
